[
    {
        "name": "Jaws",
        "image": "assets/images/jaws.jpg",
        "lastKnownLocation": "Unknown",
        "status": "Unknown",
        "description": "Jaws first appeared in the 1977 film The Spy Who Loved Me as a henchman to the villain, Karl Stromberg. He would later appear in the sequel Moonraker as a henchman to the villain Hugo Drax. In his second appearance Jaws changed from a ruthless and unstoppable killing machine to more of a comedic figure and he eventually turns against Drax and helps Bond to defeat him. In addition to having steel teeth, Jaws was also gigantic and extremely strong, which forced Bond to be especially inventive while fighting him. In combat during The Spy Who Loved Me, Bond found himself caught in an unbreakable death grip by Jaws, who was about to fatally bite him; Bond only escaped by using a broken electric lamp to send an electric shock through the assassin's teeth to stun him. In Moonraker he gains a girlfriend, Dolly, who like Jaws seems to almost never speak (she says nothing audible in the film) and who is the primary reason for his reformation. Jaws himself only speaks once, in Moonraker, when he makes a toast to his girlfriend: \"Well, here's to us.\"<br/>Jaws also has an uncanny ability to survive any misfortune seemingly unscathed and come back to challenge Bond again. In The Spy Who Loved Me, Jaws survives an Egyptian structure's collapse on top of him, being hit by a van, being thrown from a rapidly-moving train, sitting in the passenger seat of a car which veers off a cliff in Sardinia and lands in a hut below (to the owner's dismay), a battle underwater with a shark, and the destruction of Stromberg's lair. In Moonraker, he survives falling several thousand feet after accidentally disabling his own parachute (he falls through a circus tent and lands in the trapeze net), a crash through a building inside a runaway cable car (where he meets Dolly), and going over Iguazu Falls. After each of these incidents (except the last), he always picks himself up, dusts off his jacket, straightens his tie and nonchalantly walks away. At the end of the film, Jaws is left aboard Drax's disintegrating space station with his girlfriend; they open a bottle of champagne, and Jaws speaks his only line in the entire franchise: \"Well, here's to us.\" After he aids Bond and Dr. Goodhead in their escape, the pair subsequently are last seen floating towards Earth, with dialogue near the film's end implying they will survive their return to Earth.<br/>In 1979 there were plans to bring Jaws back for a third film. In For Your Eyes Only Jaws would marry Dolly.[2] However due to a change in production personnel and a desire to make the films more down-to-earth, the producers chose not to bring Kiel or Jaws back.<br/>Most of the background information on Jaws comes from Christopher Wood's novelisation of the film The Spy Who Loved Me; published as James Bond, The Spy Who Loved Me to differentiate from Ian Fleming's novel. In Wood's version, Jaws' real name is Zbigniew Krycsiwiki and he was born in Kraków, Poland. After a failed attempt at a basketball career, Krycsiwiki was arrested by the secret police for having taken part in the (fictitious) \"1972 bread riots\". While he was imprisoned, the police \"beat him with hollow steel clubs encased in thick leather\" until they thought he was dead, leaving his jaw broken beyond repair. Krycsiwiki later escaped and stowed aboard one of Stromberg's vessels. Eventually he was caught, but instead of turning him in, Stromberg hired a prestigious doctor to create an artificial jaw. After 14 operations Krycsiwiki's jaw was restored using steel components that created two rows of terrifying razor-sharp teeth, although Jaws was left mute. Since none of the above is actually mentioned in either movie, this is not necessarily considered canonical, and Wood contradicts his own continuity when one compares his scripts and his novelisations. In the novelisation of The Spy Who Loved Me, Wood specifically states that Jaws is a mute. However, though Jaws remains mute in Wood's James Bond and Moonraker novelisation, he actually does speak at the end of the film. In the book, Jaws remains attached to the magnet that Bond dips into the tank, as opposed to the film where Bond releases Jaws from the magnet into the water: \"Now both hands were tearing at the magnet, and Jaws twisted furiously like a fish on the hook. As Bond watched in fascinated horror, a relentless triangle streaked up behind the stricken giant. A huge gray force launched itself through the wild water, and two rows of white teeth closed around the threshing flesh.\"",
        "latitude":null,
        "longitude":null
    },
    {
        "name": "Dr. Julius No",
        "image": "assets/images/drno.jpg",
        "lastKnownLocation": "Crab Key, Jamaica",
        "status": "Deceased",
        "description": "Dr. No is a brilliant scientist with an implied Napoleon complex(see mad scientist), a self-described \"unwanted child of aGerman missionary and a Chinese girl of a good family\". He later \"became treasurer of the most powerful criminal society in China\"; in this case, the Tongs. He then \"escaped to America with $10,000,000\" of Tong gold bullion. He specialized inradiation, which cost him both of his hands; his hands were replaced with crude bionic metal ones. No's hands have great strength (he can crush a metal figurine with them), but are seriously lacking in manual dexterity. This property contributes to his demise.<br/>He offered his skills and expertise to the Americans and Soviets, but was rejected. To get revenge, No joined the criminal organization SPECTRE and relocated to his island in Crab Key in Jamaica.<br/>When Bond is sent to investigate the murder of two British agents and any possible connection with recent rocket disasters, No orders several attempts on 007's life. He is particularly displeased with henchman Professor Dent's failure. He gives Dent a venomous spider which is released in Bond's room. Bond kills it, and shoots Dent.<br/>No fails in his own attempts to kill Bond; first by locking him in a ventilation shaft and then by beating him with his metal hands.[1]<br/>No captures Bond and Honey Rider when they trespass on his island, and they are put through a decontamination shower since No's henchmen detected radiation on them. During dinner, he offers Bond a position in his organization, but Bond refuses. Bond escapes through a ventilation shaft, and disguises himself with a radiation suit. Bond enters the control centre where No and his assistants are preparing to disrupt the launch of an American rocket. Bond sabotages No's pool-type nuclear reactor, allowing the American missile to launch successfully while No and most of his henchmen do not notice. The two men fight while everyone else flees the imminent explosion. They both fall onto a small platform that slowly descends into the boiling coolant of the overheating reactor. Bond manages to climb out, but No cannot get a grip on the metal framework and is boiled to death. Bond frees Honey from where she has been chained in a room filling with water, and escapes before the reactor explodes.",
        "latitude":18.463327,
        "longitude":-77.39984
    },
    {
        "name": "Ernst Stavro Blofeld",
        "image": "assets/images/blofeld.jpg",
        "lastKnownLocation": "Baja, California",
        "status": "Presumed Dead",
        "description": "In the film series Blofeld first appears in From Russia with Love, then in Thunderball. In these first two appearances, his face is not seen and only his lower body is visible as he strokes his trademark white cat.<br/>In the third, fourth, and fifth appearances –You Only Live Twice, On Her Majesty’s Secret Service and Diamonds are Forever – he is the primary antagonist, meeting Bond face-to-face. During the opening sequence ofDiamonds Are Forever, he reveals to Bond that some of his men have undergone plastic surgery to become decoy duplicates of him.<br/>In the film version of On Her Majesty's Secret Service, he is not the actual killer of Tracy Bond. He drives the car from which Irma Bunt (Ilse Steppat) fires the fatal shots at Tracy, just hours after she marries Bond.<br/>In the sixth and final appearance – in the pre-credit sequence of For Your Eyes Only – he is an anonymous, bald villain trying to kill Bond once again. Blofeld remains unnamed and unlisted in this film’s end credits. The only clues to his identity are the trademark white cat,[2] similar clothes to his previous onscreen appearances, the dialogue indicating that he and Bond have met before, and the fact that the scene begins with Bond paying his respects to Tracy, often considered by the producers as a means of providing an \"immediate continuity link\" in the event of a new actor taking the part of Bond (although this was Roger Moore's fifth appearance as Bond).[3] The anonymity of the villain was due to the legal disputebetween Kevin McClory and Eon Productions over the Thunderball copyrights.[citation needed]<br/>Blofeld’s appearance and personality change according to the personifying actor:<br/>He has a full head of black hair in From Russia With Love and Thunderball; a facial dueling scar in You Only Live Twice; no scar or earlobes in On Her Majesty's Secret Service; and silver-grey hair inDiamonds Are Forever. This metamorphosing matches Fleming’s literary portrayal of a master criminal who will go to great lengths to preserve his anonymity, including the use of radical plastic surgery. He often wears a jacket without lapels, based loosely either on the Nehru jacket or on the Mao suit, a feature which is used in spoofs like the Austin Powers series, though in his early two appearances on film he wore a black business suit.",
        "latitude":30.488918,
        "longitude":-116.111755
    }
]
